Tyler.
[Music]
Hey
everyone, welcome to the video. I'm
going to talk about a few features on
the Pixelab plugin. Today we're going to
talk about the create texture feature,
the create tile set feature, and also
the experimental create tile set new.
Firstly, we're going to cover the map
create texture tool. When you first open
up the tool, you will see a few key
things. Right up top, there's a
description. This is where you type any
type of texture we like. It can be as
detailed as possible or super simple.
Just keep in mind the more context you
give it, the better the
results. Right below that, you'll find
two drop- down
menus. One for shading and one for
detail. Beneath those, we have the ina
image, which acts as a reference to the
generator. If you have a certain uh
style or look you're trying to
achieve, you can use this and mess with
the uh strength of it. The less it is,
the more creative the model gets. Higher
the more it stays true to your initial
drawing. I'm going to go ahead and turn
this off. Under the advanced options, we
have guidance weight, which is for the
description. The same thing applies to
this as it did the init image. The
higher it is, the stricter is going to
be. The less, the more creative the
model can get. Down here, we have the
seeds. Normally, it's best to keep it at
zero, unless you have a a seed already
in mind from a previous generation. If
that's the case, you can load it by
clicking the select file uh button here.
So, for reference, I'm just going to
click one of these at
random. And there we
go. Wavy water with pebbles at the
bottom. So, this tool is super useful
whenever you're trying to enail a
certain
style before you generate a tile set.
It's a lot faster and it's a lot easier
to clean up.
All right, the next tool we're going to
cover is the map create tile
set. This tool is super
useful and it's packed full of features.
Starting off, we have two tiles at the
top, the inner tile and the outer tile.
It allows you to set your current
textures to generate in the tile set.
This way, there's no guessing game on
what your output would be, and you can
stay true to your current style.
However, if you do not have any
textures, that's where the texture tool
comes in for 16x6 tiles. However, this
gives you the option to use 32x 32. So,
if you don't have any textures, you can
always just press clear on that and keep
them blank. This way, it will generate
the textures for
you. However, I'm going to keep it 16x
16 as default. If you do not have any
textures, you can describe them just
like you did in the create texture tool.
There is one new drop-own box in the
guidance
section for outlines.
Again, just experiment with it and see
what you
like. Under the advanced
options, this is where it gets kind of
exciting. The border jitter is basically
how noisy the outline of the tile set
blob will be. The map strength is how
often the tiles texture repeats. The
lower it is, the more simple of a
texture you will get. The higher it is,
the more randomness the texture will be.
Tile strength kind of the same thing.
However, this is more of the detail
inside the tile. The AI border freedom
is basically the shape of the tile set
blob. And we also have the seed option
right here. This tool also allows you to
export into Sprite Fusion uh via JSON.
and it also saves as a PNG. It looks
pretty intimidating, but honestly, it
just takes a little bit of experimenting
until you get the right feel of
everything.
Next and final tool on our list to cover
which would be the experimental tool
create tile set new. This one has a lot
of similarities to the previous one we
just covered. However, there are some
core differences. As you can see, we
have three tiles up top now. Uh meaning
we have a true transition tile. The
inner tile would be the middle tile, the
in between, and then the border tile.
You can set a reference image for this
one. However, it will not use it one to
one. It will just use it as a init
image. Your descriptions are key here as
well as getting a good in image. We have
the same outline, shading, and details.
The transition tiles size we have five
options. We have none, 0.25, 0.5, 1, and
two. A small example right here I can
show you. So none has no elevation. 0.25
is about a quarter of a tile. CA5 is
roughly half a tile. These do not change
the height of the uh tile set. However,
it does give you elevation in the
transition. You go down here to the CA
and CA2. The CA1 increases the tile size
by one and the CA2 increases it by two.
This is all relative to which size you
select in the tile size. Again, you have
two options in this one. Tile strength
is a guidance for the reference image
you set and the guidance weight would be
for the descriptions. Just like
[Music]
before. You can also export this into
sprite fusion. You just have to go back
to the map, then create tile set, export
to sprite fusion. This will only work on
the first three options of transition
sizes, the none, 0.25,
and.5. I believe that's everything for
this tutorial. I'm just going to show
off a time lapse of the three tools
working together and how you can export
them to Sprite Fusion and also export
them to game engines. I appreciate you
watching. If you have any questions,
feel free to comment below and also
reach out to us on Discord.
[Music]
again from grassy
fields on the back. But don't
[Music]
youretare a helpful box floats in the
air. It's called create tile set. Oh,
let's see the
[Music]
options. Open up the tile set guide. Let
the textures flow inside. Got your inner
transition
out on your
own. You can use old textures if you set
them there with joyful ease, but
descriptions are the way to go. Tell
the description like the sea. Oh, the
You
agree? Outer description finishes the
scene. Put your words in. Make
[Music]
it. Open up the tile.
Set. Let the textures
flow. Got your inner transition
[Music]
out. Next. The style, the look, the
flare. Outline shading everywhere. How
wide the blend transition size and tile
size right before your eyes. Choose your
palette if you
need a seed. A new frame blooms
it down below. Check the box or leave
it. The time to generate is there. Hit
the button. Watch it build. Your tile
set is now fulfilled. Save the time.
It's done. So neat. Your pixel art can't
be beat.